>> Anti‐Spiral: YOUR ACTIONS
ARE BAFFLING, IRREGULAR.
WHY DO YOU RESIST US SO?
>> Nia: [grunts]
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU ARE A
VIRTUAL LIFE‐FORM THAT WAS
SPLICED INTO THE GENOME OF THE
SPIRAL RACE.
WHEN THE REMNANTS OF THAT
SPIRAL RACE ROSE UP
IN REBELLION AGAINST US,
YOU WOULD BE AWAKENED AND
BECOME OUR MESSENGER.
THAT IS YOUR REASON FOR BEING.
THE FACT THAT YOU WERE BORN TO
AND LOVED BY A SPIRAL WARRIOR
IS NOTHING MORE THAN
A COINCIDENCE.
THERE IS NOTHING SPECIAL OR
UNIQUE ABOUT YOU.
IT IS QUITE A RARE THING
FOR A MESSENGER TO BE
THIS RECALCITRANT.
>> Nia: [squealing]
>> Anti‐Spiral: THE REASON
BEHIND YOUR DEFIANCE AND
THE REASON BEHIND
THEIR OBSTINANCE...
DETERMINING THOSE COULD GIVE US
THE KEY TO EXTERMINATING ALL
SPIRAL LIFE‐FORMS.
>> Nia: [gasps]
NO MATTER HOW DEEPLY YOU PROBE
MY BODY, YOU WILL
NEVER UNDERSTAND!
>> Anti‐Spiral: WE HAVE NO NEED
TO UNDERSTAND.
WE ONLY NEED TO KNOW.
>> Nia: THEN YOU MAY AS WELL
GIVE UP, BECAUSE YOU’LL NEVER BE
ABLE TO DEFEAT THEM.
HE WILL COME.
YOU CAN BE SURE OF THAT.
[pulsing]
[woman vocalizing]
[whooshing]
[gasps]
>> Simon: WELL, NIA, I’M HERE...
JUST LIKE I PROMISED.
>> Nia: [grunts]
>> Anti‐Spiral: IMPOSSIBLE!
SENTIENT LIFE‐FORMS CAN’T
POSSIBLY ESCAPE FROM
A MULTI‐DIMENSIONAL LABYRINTH!
>> Simon: DON’T UNDERESTIMATE
US!
WE DON’T CARE ABOUT TIME OR
SPACE OR MULTI‐DIMENSIONAL
WHATEVERS.
WE DON’T GIVE A DAMN ABOUT THAT.
FORCE YOUR WAY DOWN A PATH YOU
CHOOSE TO TAKE, AND DO IT
ALL YOURSELF!
THAT’S THE WAY TEAM DAI‐GURREN
ROLLS!
[woman vocalizing]
>> Nia: EVEN WHEN TRAPPED BY
KARMA’S CYCLE...
>> Yoko: THE DREAMS WE LEFT
BEHIND WILL OPEN THE DOOR!
>> Ron: EVEN IF THE UNIVERSE
STANDS IN OUR WAY...
>> Viral: OUR SEETHING BLOOD
WILL DETERMINE WHAT WILL BE!
>> Simon: WE’LL BREAK THROUGH
TIME AND SPACE...
>> all: AND DEFY ALL WHO WOULD
STOP US TO GRAB HOLD
OF OUR PATH!
>> Simon: TENGEN TOPPA
GURREN LAGANN!
>> all: JUST WHO THE HELL DO
YOU THINK WE ARE?!
>> Anti‐Spiral: THIS IS
SURPRISING.
NO SPIRAL RACE HAS EVER MADE IT
THIS FAR.
BEING EXPOSED TO SUCH SPIRAL
POWER, IT IS NO SURPRISE THAT
OUR MESSENGER WAS MADE
IRREGULAR.
AS YOU WISH.
WE WILL FIGHT ON AN EVEN
PLAYING FIELD USING THE SAME
FORM IN WHICH YOU FIND
SUCH COMFORT.
>> Simon: WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
>> Lordgenome: IT IS HIS WAY.
HE IS ATTEMPTING TO INFLICT
ABSOLUTE DESPAIR ON US BY
FIGHTING AND DEFEATING US
ON EQUAL TERMS.
>> Simon: LORDGENOME, YOU HAVE
A BODY.
>> Lordgenome: WE ARE IN A
SUPER SPIRAL UNIVERSE WHERE
THOUGHT IS GIVEN FORM.
LET ME JOIN THIS FIGHT,
THOUGH MY BODY IS TEMPORARY.
>> Simon: I WOULD BE HONORED.
>> Boota: [grunts]
>> Lordgenome: NIA, I KNOW I
DON’T HAVE THE RIGHT TO ACT AS
YOUR FATHER, BUT YOU’VE
DONE WELL.
>> Nia: I THANK YOU, MY FATHER.
>> Lordgenome: MM.
>> Viral: HAVE YOU SNAPPED OUT
OF YOUR 1,000‐YEAR DOLDRUMS,
SPIRAL KING?
>> Lordgenome: I AM NO KING,
JUST A SIMPLE WARRIOR,
THE SAME AS YOU ARE, VIRAL.
>> Viral: SIR!
>> Simon: AGH!
>> Anti‐Spiral: SPIRAL RACE...
IS THAT ALL YOU HAVE?!
[laughing]
>> Simon: [grunting]
>> Yoko: I’LL HANDLE THIS!
>> Anti‐Spiral: [laughing]
YOU WASTE YOUR TIME!
>> Darry: I’M GOIN’ IN!
>> Gimmy: YEAH!
>> Artenborough: ME TOO!
>> Anti‐Spiral: THE UNIVERSE
IS UNDER OUR COMPLETE CONTROL!
YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING HERE ARE
ABSOLUTELY ZERO!
>> Yoko: IS THAT...
[gasps]
>> Ron: WHAT’S THAT?
>> Nia: THAT IS THE
ANTI‐SPIRALS’ HOME WORLD!
>> Simon: WHAT?!
>> Anti‐Spiral: SHE IS CORRECT.
WE ANTI‐SPIRALS WERE ONCE A
SPIRAL RACE LIKE YOURSELVES.
BUT WHEN WE LEARNED THAT THE
EVOLUTION OF SPIRAL POWER
WOULD LEAD TO THE DESTRUCTION
OF THE UNIVERSE, WE ANNIHILATED
ALL THOSE WHO POSSESSED THE
POWER OF THE SPIRAL AND DROVE
THE FEW SURVIVING LIFE FORMS
TO THE FAR CORNERS
OF THE UNIVERSE.
WE HALTED OUR OWN EVOLUTION
AND LOCKED OURSELVES AWAY IN
THIS POCKET UNIVERSE.
ON OUR HOME WORLD, WE SEALED
AWAY OUR BODIES AND ANY
POSSIBILITY OF EVOLUTION.
THIS FORM IS THE SYMBOL OF
OUR DETERMINATION!
>> Viral: [grunting]
>> Anti‐Spiral: FOOLISH
CREATURES, DRUNK ON YOUR SPIRAL
POWER.
>> Viral: AAAAAH!
>> Anti‐Spiral: DO YOU POSSESS
THE RESOLVE TO DO THAT?
WE DEFENDED THE UNIVERSE BY
KILLING OUR FELLOW SPIRALS
AND HALTING OUR OWN EVOLUTION!
DO YOU POSSESS THE SHEAR
FORTITUDE THAT IS ON PAR
WITH THAT?
DO YOU?!
WE SAY NO!
NO! NO! NO! NO! NO!
NO! NO! NO! NO!
NOT AT ALL!
>> Simon: [grunting]
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU POSSESS
NEITHER WILL...
NOR RESOLVE...
NOR REASON!
YOU USE YOUR SPIRAL POWER TO
SATISFY YOUR OWN DESIRES
AND GROW DRUNK ON IT!
IT’S YOUR FUNDAMENTAL
LIMITATION!
IT IS FOR THAT REASON THAT WE
MUST EXTERMINATE YOU!
>> Dayakka: WHAT’S GOING ON?
WE’RE NOT EVEN DENTING IT!
>> Tetsukan: AT THIS RATE, WE
WON’T BE ABLE TO PROTECT EARTH!
>> Yoko: HE’S RIGHT, UNTIL WE
GET BACK THERE.
>> Artenborough: LOOK!
IT’S THE EARTH!
>> Darry: IT IS?
>> Gimmy: IS THAT REALLY THE
EARTH DOWN THERE?!
>> Cybela: SOME SORT OF
SPACE‐TIME FOLD?
>> Ron: MOST LIKELY.
THE BATTLE AGAINST THE
ANTI‐SPIRALS MIGHT HAVE
INTERACTED WITH THE SPIRAL
REALM PERCEPTUAL TELEPORTATION
SYSTEM, AND...
>> Lordgenome: AND CREATED
A SPACE‐TIME BYPASS.
[all gasp]
>> Anti‐Spiral: AH, FASCINATING.
THAT IS YOUR HOME WORLD, IS IT?
>> Kiyal: [gasping]
SIS! SIS!
>> Kiyoh: KIYAL!
WHAT’S THE BIG EMERGENCY?
>> Kiyal: LOOK! UP THERE!
>> Kiyoh: HMM?
[gasps]
>> Rossiu: WH‐WHAT IS THAT?!
[beep]
>> Kinon: PERCEPTION
TELEPORTATION DETECTED!
I’M GETTING A HUGE READING!
>> Rossiu: THE ANTI‐SPIRALS?
>> Kiyal: UHH!
>> Anne: [crying]
>> Dayakka: SUPER DIMENSIONAL
ANCHOR!
YOU’RE NOT LAYING A FINGER ON
MY EARTH!
>> Kiyal: HEY, THAT’S‐‐
>> Kiyoh: GURREN LAGANN!
>> Dayakka: GIVE IT ALL YOU’VE
GOT!
>> Gabal: LEAVE IT TO ME!
>> Dayakka: AAH!
THAT PLANET DON’T BELONG TO YOU!
"I GOT THE BEST WIFE IN THE
UNIVERSE" SWING!
>> Kiyal: [laughs]
[all cheer]
>> Artenborough: NOW EAT THIS!
AND THIS! AND THIS! AND THIS!
AND THIS!
>> Anti‐Spiral: THAT WON’T WORK.
>> Leyte: PROBABILITY
ALTERATION?
>> Ron: OH, I’M IMPRESSED!
>> Artenborough: YOU BET!
WHEN IT COMES TO SPACEY
INTERRUPTIONS, I’M YOUR MAN!
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU CONTINUE TO
STRUGGLE, EVEN KNOWING
WHAT YOU KNOW?
>> Simon: OF COURSE WE DO!
THE TOMORROW WE’RE TRYING TO
GRAB FOR OURSELVES
IS NOT THE TOMORROW THAT
YOU’VE SET OUT FOR US!
IT’S THE TOMORROW THAT WE
CHOOSE FOR OURSELVES,
A TOMORROW THAT WE CHOOSE OUT
OF ALL THE INFINITE UNIVERSES!
WE’LL FIGHT OUR WAY THROUGH!
WE’LL KEEP FIGHTING AND PROTECT
THE UNIVERSE!
WE’LL STOP THE SPIRAL NEMESIS,
TOO!
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOU CAN’T
POSSIBLY ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT!
>> Simon: JUST WATCH US!
>> Anti‐Spiral: [groans]
SUCH ARROGANCE FROM A LOWLY
SPECIES THAT IS KEPT SUPPRESSED
BY US!
WE WILL MAKE YOU REGRET
YOUR INSOLENCE!
>> Tetsukan: HE’S BUILDING UP
MASSIVE ENERGY!
>> Ron: IT’S ON PAR WITH THE
BIRTH OF THE UNIVERSE.
>> Cybela: IT’S ALMOST LIKE
A BIG BANG.
>> Viral: AND THAT’S WHAT
THEY’RE GOING TO HIT US WITH?
>> Anti‐Spiral: INFINITY
BIG BANG STORM!
BURN IN THE EVERLASTING
HELLFIRE OF CREATION!
BE UTTERLY ANNIHILATED, DOWN TO
THE VERY LAST SCRAP OF DNA!
>> Darry: UHH!
[grunting]
>> Gimmy: TRY TO HANG ON, DARRY!
>> Darry: YOU TOO, GIMMY!
>> Simon: DAMN!
>> Tetsukan: [grunting]
>> Artenborough: [grunting]
>> Leyte: THIS IS BAD!
WE CAN’T TAKE TOO MUCH MORE
OF THIS!
>> Kiyal: SIMON.
>> Kiyoh: OH, HONEY.
>> Rossiu: IT’S BAD, BUT IT’LL
TAKE A LOT MORE THAN THIS TO
FINISH ’EM!
[rock music playing]
♪ ♪
>> Simon: NOT YET!
WE’RE NOT DONE!
>> Lordgenome: SIMON!
LEAVE THIS ONE TO ME.
LAZENGANN OVERLOAD!
[woman singing in Japanese]
♪ ♪
>> Nia: FATHER!
>> Lordgenome: DO NOT GRIEVE
FOR ME, DAUGHTER.
>> Nia: [gasps]
>> Lordgenome: MY SOUL ONCE
DROWNED IN A SEA OF DESPAIR
AND WEARINESS, BUT HAS
REAWAKENED.
IF THIS BODY CAN CREATE A
TOMORROW FOR ALL SPIRAL LIFE,
I WILL GLADLY GIVE IT.
>> Nia: YES, I AGREE COMPLETELY.
>> Simon: NIA, WHAT ARE YOU...
>> Nia: SIMON, YOU’VE COME
ALL THIS WAY SO THAT
YOU COULD FINALLY DO WHAT YOU
HAD TO DO.
RIGHT?
>> Simon: THAT’S RIGHT.
WE’LL WIN THIS FIGHT.
COUNT ON IT.
>> Viral: OBVIOUSLY.
>> Anti‐Spiral: YOUR DEATHS
WILL BE FOR NOTHING!
BEGONE!
>> Cybela: LAZENGANN IS
SUFFERING A QUANTUM BREAKDOWN!
>> Lordgenome: JUST WHAT I WAS
WAITING FOR!
SIMON, TAKE IT!
>> Simon: LORDGENOME...
LET’S DO THIS TOGETHER!
>> Anti‐Spiral: IMPOSSIBLE!
HE ALLOWED HIMSELF TO UNDERGO
QUANTUM BREAKDOWN SO HE
COULD BECOME ONE WITH
THE ENERGY?
>> Simon: EAT THIS!
>> Anti‐Spiral: NEVER!
HOW CAN THIS BE?
WHERE ARE YOU DRAWING
ALL OF THIS POWER FROM?
>> Simon: WE EVOLVE...
BEYOND THE PERSON WE WERE
A MINUTE BEFORE.
LITTLE BY LITTLE, WE ADVANCE
A BIT FURTHER WITH EACH TURN.
THAT’S HOW A DRILL WORKS!
>> Anti‐Spiral: THAT IS THE
PATH THAT LEADS TO EXTINCTION!
WHY CAN’T YOU SEE THE PATHETIC
LIMITATION OF THE SPIRAL RACE?
>> Simon: NO, THAT’S YOUR
LIMITATION!
YOU SIT HERE CLOSED‐OFF,
LOCKING AWAY OTHER LIFE FORMS
LIKE SOME KIND OF KING!
THAT’S NOBODY’S LIMITATION BUT
YOUR OWN!
>> Yoko: HE’S RIGHT!
WE HUMANS USED TO HAVE SOMEBODY
MUCH GREATER THAN US!
FOR HIS SAKE ALONE, WE’LL KEEP
ON MOVING FORWARD!
>> Nia: I’VE STAKED EVERYTHING
ON THE GREATNESS OF THE HUMAN
SPIRIT TOO!
>> Simon: MARK MY WORDS.
THIS DRILL WILL OPEN A HOLE
IN THE UNIVERSE,
AND THAT HOLE WILL BE A PATH
FOR THOSE BEHIND US.
THE DREAMS OF THOSE WHO HAVE
FALLEN, THE HOPES OF THOSE
WHO WILL FOLLOW, THOSE TWO SETS
OF DREAMS WEAVE TOGETHER INTO
A DOUBLE HELIX, DRILLING A PATH
TOWARDS TOMORROW...
AND THAT’S TENGEN TOPPA!
THAT’S GURREN LAGANN!
MY DRILL IS THE DRILL THAT
CREATES THE HEAVENS!
[woman singing in Japanese]
♪ ♪
>> Viral: SIMON!
GO!
>> Anti‐Spiral: [grunting]
>> Simon: LAGANN IMPACT!
>> Anti‐Spiral: IF THIS IS HOW
IT MUST BE, PROTECT THE UNIVERSE
AT ALL COST.
>> Simon: OF COURSE WE WILL.
HUMANITY ISN’T THAT STUPID.
[all cheering]
[gasping]
>> Dayakka: WHAT HAPPENED?
>> Ron: THE ENERGY THAT WAS
MAINTAINING THAT UNIVERSE
BETWEEN DIMENSIONS HAS VANISHED.
>> Rossiu: SIMON!
DO YOU READ ME?!
SIMON!
WE’RE BEING CONTACTED BY ONE
PLANET AFTER ANOTHER FROM
ACROSS THE GALAXY!
[cheering]
THE FREED SPIRAL RACES
ARE ALL SENDING US MESSAGES
OF JOY AND CELEBRATION!
THERE ARE SO MANY OTHERS LIKE
US OUT THERE!
[cheering]
>> all: SIMON!
>> Simon: IT’S ALL OVER, NIA.
>> Nia: YES.
LET’S GO HOME.
>> Old Coco: WELCOME HOME,
MISTRESS NIA.
>> Nia: I THANK YOU, OLD COCO.
SIMON, LOOK AT THIS!
SEE?
>> Simon: UH...
IT’S BEAUTIFUL.
>> Nia: [sighs]
THANK YOU, SIMON...
FOR EVERYTHING.
[soft music playing]
[all cheer]
>> Yoko: [gasps]
>> Simon: NIA, I WILL NEVER
FORGET YOU...
THROUGH THE END OF THE UNIVERSE.
>> Nia: BUT, SILLY,
IT’LL NEVER END.
THAT’S WHAT WE ALL WORKED SO
HARD FOR.
>> Simon: [chuckles]
YEAH, YOU’RE RIGHT.
>> Nia: I LOVE YOU SO, SIMON.
>> Simon: YEAH. I DO TOO.
I LOVE YOU.
>> Yoko: SIMON.
>> Simon: IT’S ALL RIGHT.
WE KNEW THAT THIS WOULD HAPPEN.
BOTH OF US KNEW.
>> Darry: YEAH, BUT IT’S NOT‐‐
>> Simon: DEFEATING THE
ANTI‐SPIRALS MEANT THAT THIS
WAS GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> Viral: NIA WAS A VIRTUAL
LIFE‐FORM OF THE ANTI‐SPIRALS.
I’M AMAZED SHE HUNG ON AS LONG
AS SHE DID.
>> Ron: SHE ALWAYS WAS ONE
TOUGH COOKIE.
>> Gimmy: WELL, THEN,
THEN YOU SHOULD JUST USE THE
POWER OF THE SPIRAL!
WHY CAN’T YOU CAN USE THAT
POWER TO BRING NIA BACK?
AND NOT JUST HER!
ALL THE OTHER PEOPLE WE LOST!
>> Yoko: SORRY, BUT SIMON ISN’T
GOD, GIMMY.
>> Gimmy: [sighs]
>> Simon: THOSE WHO ARE DEAD
ARE DEAD.
IF WE BRING THEM BACK TO LIFE,
THEY’LL JUST GET IN THE WAY
OF THE NEXT GENERATION, RIGHT?
IT’S IN YOUR HANDS NOW, ROSSIU.
>> Rossiu: BUT, SIMON...
>> Simon: I’M JUST SIMON
THE DIGGER.
THERE’S SOMEONE BETTER SUITED
TO GO DOWN THE TUNNELS I DUG.
>> Rossiu: YOU CAN COUNT ON ME.
>> Ron: WE HAD LOTS OF FUN,
DIDN’T WE?
>> Yoko: SIMON!
[man singing in Japanese]
♪ ♪
>> Ron: THE GALACTIC SPIRAL
PEACE CONFERENCE...
I HOPE IT GOES WELL.
>> Rossiu: WE MAY BE FELLOW
SPIRAL RACES, BUT WE’RE
DIFFERENT SPECIES AND HAVE
DIFFERENT WAYS OF THINKING.
IT’S TAKEN 20 YEARS
TO PUT IT TOGETHER.
>> Ron: THE JOB WOULD HAVE BEEN
IMPOSSIBLE FOR ANYONE ELSE,
PRESIDENT ROSSIU.
>> Rossiu: I JUST WONDER WHAT
HE’S UP TO.
>> Ron: HE’S OUT THERE
SOMEWHERE WATCHING OVER US.
THAT’S THE SORT OF MAN HE IS.
>> Naakim: THIS IS NAAKIM.
I’VE BEEN SELECTED TO
REPRESENT THE GALAXY IN THE
GRAPEARL SQUADRON.
WE WILL STOP THE SPIRAL NEMESIS.
GOOD‐BYE, MISS YOMAKO.
>> girl: GOODBYE NOW!
>> boy: BYE, MISS YOMAKO!
>> girl: SEE YOU TOMORROW!
>> boy: GOOD‐BYE!
>> Darry: IT’S FINALLY TIME,
GIMMY.
>> Gimmy: YEAH.
>> Cybela: CAPTAIN, THE
GRAPEARL FORCES ARE ABOUT
TO LIFT OFF.
>> Viral: SPIN UP
THE SUPER SPIRAL ENGINES!
AS SOON AS THEY’RE ALL ABOARD,
SUPER‐TELEPORT INTO DEEP SPACE!
WE’RE REPRESENTING EARTH
OUT THERE!
PUT SOME SPIRIT INTO IT!
[bell tolling]
>> boy: [grunting]
>> Simon: WHAT’S WRONG, KID?
>> boy: I CAN’T DRILL A
HOLE IN THIS THING.
>> Simon: YOU’RE PUTTING TOO
MUCH FORCE INTO IT.
TRY TURNING THE DRILL
MORE GENTLY.
>> boy: LIKE THIS?
HEY, IT WORKED!
YOU’RE AWESOME, MISTER!
>> Simon: OF COURSE IT WORKED!
JUST WHO THE HELL DO YOU‐‐
>> boy: [gulping loudly]
YUMMY!
>> Simon: NAH, I GUESS
I’M NO ONE.
[whooshing]
>> boy: AH! AWESOME!
IT’S GURREN LAGANN!
LOOK AT ALL THE GURREN LAGANNS!
[laughs]
>> Simon: YOU KNOW, I THINK
YOU’RE RIGHT.
>> boy: I WONDER IF I’LL
EVER GO.
>> Simon: SURE YOU WILL.
BECAUSE THE LIGHTS IN THE SKY
ARE STARS.
>> Boota: [grunts]
>> Simon: HMM.
YEAH, THEY’RE STARS.
STARS WHERE OUR SPIRAL COUSINS
ARE WAITING FOR US.